readme.md, before:

# The Arduino Car

This Arduino Car is used for the Master's thesis of David (@Code-Schwabe). It has the capabilities to
* drive autonomously following a line on the ground
* measure the distance in 2 directions (front and right rear)
* communicate with another Arduino Car using WiFi

## Hardware

The hardware in use is the following:
* 1 Arduino Mega 2560 Rev3
* 1 Arduino Nano Rev3
* 1 chassis with 4 simple DC motors
* 1 motor controller L298N
* 1 WiFi shield ESP8266-01S
* 3 infrared sensors KY-033
* 2 ultrasonic distance sensors HC-SR04 (tdb)
* ...many cables, glue and a breadboard

The hardware is wired as depicted here:
![](wirings/arduino%20car.png)

The two Arduinos communicate via an I2C bus connection.

It can be powered by any 12V power source - for mobility reasons, a 3 cell LiPo battery is used in our current set-up. It is also useful to connect the battery to a switch first, so the car isn't powered up directly on battery connection.

The following pictures show an exemplary set-up.

![](fotos/car_v1_right-front-view.jpg)
![](fotos/car_v1_right-rear-view.jpg)
And without the battery:
![](fotos/car_v1_side-view_no-battery.jpg)

## Software

The software in this repository has two purposes:
* Demonstrate the capabilities of the Arduino Car.
* Provide device libararies (where possible) for the car's capabilities (continuous components) that can later be included in the code generation process.

### LineFollower

The LineFollower libraries implement the interaction with the sensors (infrared, distance) and actuators (dc motors via motor controller) in order to make the car drive autonomously while following a black line on the ground and measure the distance to other cars or obstacles.

### CarCoordinator

The CarCoordinator encapsulates the communication with other cars for coordinated behavior. Currently, it only simulates the communication with the LineFollower and the connection to a WiFi network.

Commit message:

Add mqqt connection and car v2

readme.md, after:

# The Arduino Car

This Arduino Car is used for the Master's thesis of David (@Code-Schwabe). It has the capabilities to
* drive autonomously following a line on the ground
* measure the distance in 2 directions (front and right rear)
* communicate with another Arduino Car using WiFi

## Hardware

The hardware in use is the following:
* 1 Arduino Mega 2560 Rev3
* 1 Arduino Nano Rev3
* 1 chassis with 4 simple DC motors
* 1 motor controller L298N
* 1 WiFi shield ESP8266-01S
* 3 infrared sensors KY-033
* 2 ultrasonic distance sensors HC-SR04 (tdb)
* ...many cables, glue and a breadboard

The hardware is wired as depicted here:
![](wirings/arduino%20car.png)

The two Arduinos communicate via an I2C bus connection.

It can be powered by any 12V power source - for mobility reasons, a 3 cell LiPo battery is used in our current set-up. It is also useful to connect the battery to a switch first, so the car isn't powered up directly on battery connection.

## Software

The software in this repository has two purposes:
* Demonstrate the capabilities of the Arduino Car.
* Provide device libararies (where possible) for the car's capabilities (continuous components) that can later be included in the code generation process.

### LineFollower

The LineFollower libraries implement the interaction with the sensors (infrared, distance) and actuators (dc motors via motor controller) in order to make the car drive autonomously while following a black line on the ground and measure the distance to other cars or obstacles.

### CarCoordinator

The CarCoordinator encapsulates the communication with other cars for coordinated behavior. Currently, it connects to an MQTT broker where it listens to "START" and "STOP" messages. Upon receiving a message, it instructs the LineFollower component to start or stop the car accordingly. 

## Installation Example

The following pictures show an exemplary set-up where the wiring is a little more visible (might be helpful for reconstruction).

![](fotos/car_v1_right-front-view.jpg)
![](fotos/car_v1_right-rear-view.jpg)
And without the battery:
![](fotos/car_v1_side-view_no-battery.jpg)

And the following pictures show an exemplary set-up where the wiring is a little more hidden (looks better :sparkles:).

![](fotos/car_v2_left_front_view.jpg)
![](fotos/car_v2_right-front-view.jpg)
![](fotos/car_v2_right-side-rear-view.jpg)
